>> I'm Adam Swift, I'm an Engineer in the
Core Data Team and I want to talk to you
about the new features in Core Data and Snow Leopard.
Now I was joking that I was going to come
out here and just say "It is on the phone,"
which is great and we're really excited about that.
But really we've got a lot of new features
in Snow Leopard that we think are going
to help you accelerate your development,
optimize your performance,
and really get the most out of
Core Data in your application.
So in this session, we're going to talk
about data migration, Spotlight integration,
best practices for using Core Data
with Grand Central Dispatch
fetch performance and a variety of tips and tricks.
So at the end of the session, what I'm hoping you'll walk
away with is an understanding of how to take advantage
of these new features, to reduce and simply the amount of
code you need to maintain, and improve your performance
to use less memory with Core Data
and achieve faster performance.
So the first thing I'd like to go
through is lightweight migration.
And the general philosophy here is
you start out with an application.
And when you're first doing your data model design,
you think about the needs of your application,
you design your entities, the attributes,
to store all the data that you need,
and you have some considerations for performance.
But as soon-- as soon as you start building an application
and testing it, you realize that as your data set grows,
there are some places where your
performance starts to suffer.
And also, when users start to get access to your
application, you are going to get some feedback
about missing features or some
other things you'd like to change.
And this is the right time to start thinking
about changing your data model to adjust
for what these changes are going to require.
And we want you to do that, this is the
right time to be changing your data model.
So in Leopard, we introduced scheme
and migration and I want to walk you
through that process really quickly just to review.
So you start out with the version 1.0 of your data
model and you build up some data and you can see
that in the store file there, that's
the box with blocks in it.
And when you realize, you need to change your
data model, you can build a mapping model
to describe those data transformations to convert the
data that you've got in version 1.0 of your data model
to the version that's compatible with
version 1.1 or 2 or whatever it is.
So you create a map on migration manager and you
set the mapping model on the migration manager,
feed in your source data store and out the
other side comes a data store that's compatible
with the next version of your data model.
And that's the Leopard schema and migration process.
And let's look through the basic steps or
the basic rules of Leopard schema migration.
You need a compatible data model
to open-- to access your data
And you can create a mapping model to migrate that data.
Now Xcode provides an assistant, but creating a
mapping model does require a little bit of hand tuning
and if you have truly complex changes
in your data model between versions,
you'll need to write some code to
deal with those transformations.
And all of these things are described in the Core Data
Model Versioning And Data Migration Programming Guide.
So if you haven't worked with a mapping model
before, I want to show you what it looks like
and this is the standard Xcode editor for a mapping model.
And you create it in the assistant with a
source data model and a destination data model.
And then for each of the entities in your data
models, you need to provide entity mappings.
You need to define entity mappings to describe
each of the properties of those entities
and how they should be transformed
from version 1 to version 2.
And during the development process, you're going to repeat
the cycle over and over again as you test, change your code,
change your model, you'll discover new performance
bottlenecks, or you may find more features you want to add.
And this change is good and we wanted
to facilitate this is much as possible.
So this is one of the things we focus on for Snow Leopard
was adding a new automatic migration technology we call
"lightweight migration."
And it's simple data migration, it's easy
to set up, and you can do it with zero code.
We think this is a huge win and really
encourage everyone to try it out.
So what is it?
It's inferred data migration.
Core Data will automatically infer
the mapping model for you.
It only handles unambiguous changes
but that covers a lot of territory.
So I'm going to walk you through a few examples of
what is considered unambiguous or inferable changes.
So in version 1 of your data model, you have
defined a song entity, and it has an attribute,
name attribute and album and lyrics relationships.
Well, when you go to make an update your
data model, you want to make some changes.
You decide that name really isn't expressing the right-- the
song title the right way, it better expresses this title.
So you replace name with title and your
users are saying they want to know--
they want to keep track of how long the songs are.
They want to be able to see that in the interface.
So you can add a length attribute to your song entity.
Also, you got feedback that nobody is really
interested in keeping track of the lyrics
and really it's just causing your
performance to get bogged down.
So you get rid of that relationship entirely.
All of these changes can be inferred
automatically and the data can be migrated
with lightweight migration without any code.
So let's look at another example.
You can add, remove, or rename entities as well.
So going back to the data model, you've got, say
in version 1 you've named your entity--
two other entities, musician and lyrics.
Well, you just got rid off the lyrics relationship
so you might as well get rid of the entity entirely.
And you can do that.
Musician really isn't expressing that entity
name correctly, it could be better called artist.
And maybe you are starting to build a relationship
with some of the record labels so you want to be able
to represent that in your application as well.
So you can add the label entity and create
a relationship from your artist to label.
Again, these are all inferable changes and
the data can be migrated without any code.
Let's take a deeper look at what kinds of changes you
can make with your entities in lightweight migration.
So in version 1, we've got a song and a video
and they share a lot of the same properties.
They both have name attributes and
they both have data relationships.
But you can't have a relationship that
goes to either one of them, to both--
you can't have a relationship that goes to objects of both
of those types because they don't share a common parent.
Well, you can add a common parent and have that--
have both of those entities inherit from it
and even move those properties up to the parent entity.
And this again, can be handled with lightweight migration.
So how do you do it?
What do you need to do to use it?
It's got really easy set up, there
are just two things you need to do.
One, you need to keep the old version of your data model.
When-- in order for Core Data to open up
your original data model for the migration,
it needs to have a copy of that source data model.
So use the Xcode design menu to add a new model
version when you're getting ready to make changes.
Don't just go changing your old data model.
Second, you need to enable the migration objects.
You need to infer mapping models at them at the option
to infer mapping models automatically and the option
to migrate persistent stores automatically.
Now there's a detail I glossed over
with renaming entities and properties.
For-- the inferred mapping model to understand what
your intention is when you're deleting an old attribute
and adding a new one versus renaming an attribute.
We've added a new piece of API to
specify the renaming identifier.
And you can specify this directly in Xcode design-- model
design tool and you can see here the field is shown in the--
this is the attribute configuration inspector and I've
got the song entity selected here, the title property,
and this is the version 2 of my data model.
So in order to rename and-- in order to rename the
name property to title and be able to migrate that data
from my source, data storage to the destination, I just need
to put in the old name right and renaming identifier field.
And inferred migration or lightweight migration will
take care of inferring that change automatically.
So this already provides you a huge value
in terms of workflow efficiency, it makes--
making model changes a lot less stressful, it's easier,
you don't need to worry about adding an attribute
or replacing the name of a value, but
there's a huge other benefit to it.
Because of the changes can be-- are unambiguous and
relatively simple, the entire migration process can be done
in the database without fetching any rows into memory.
It uses SQL to transform tables and update rows.
>> And it's really the fastest, least
amount of memory way to do data migration.
Now if you get unexpected results or you run
into problems with using lightweight migration,
there are a number of default that-- defaults you can
set to enable logging during the migration process.
And these defaults work on the desktop only.
To enable migration logs, you want to enable-- oh, I'm
sorry I meant to say, I've displayed the syntax here
for passing these defaults as arguments to your executable.
So you can do that right in the Xcode executable inspector.
But you can enable migration logging and SQL logging.
And since the migration, if you're using a SQLite store
it's being performed entirely with SQL statements.
You can see a lot of what's going on
by just enabling the SQL logs for that.
So to sum up with lightweight migration gives
you, it's simple migration for simple changes,
it's very easy to set up, and it's exceedingly fast.
So especially on the phone, you get a
huge benefit for using this when you can.
And for those cases where you're-- making
a data model change that's too complex
or it can't be handled with lightweight migration.
You can provide your own custom
mapping model for those steps.
So now I'd like to turn my attention
to Spotlight search integration.
And you're maybe wondering, what's new about that?
We have offered Spotlight search integration since our
first release-- since Core Data was first released in Tiger.
We've provided a document-based Spotlight importer
and it works great for finding Core Data documents.
But what about non-document-based applications
where all the records live in a single file?
Let's look at an example of what Spotlight
does when you're dealing with documents
versus non-documents-- non-document-based apps.
So if I search for barbeque, something I'm
fond of, I'll get all of the documents,
Spotlight correctly gives me all the
documents that reference that term.
But with a non-document like non-document-based
app like dictionary,
it is actually giving me the matching records inside.
And this is something-- well let's
take a look at another example.
So if I do a Spotlight search for Malcolm,
I want the results to match individual records,
and they should open up an Address Book.
But it's-- it's got it to go one step further.
It needs to display the matching contact.
And this is what we've added in Snow Leopard with Core Data.
It's a new Spotlight search integration template and it's
a better user experience for non-document-based apps.
And it gives you a way to integrate
Spotlight search in way in your application
that you can find and open individual records.
And this is all documented in the Core Data
Spotlight Integration Programming Guide.
It uses standard Spotlight APIs, you're
still doing all the same kinds of things
that you would do with a document base Spotlight importer.
The importer creates the index but we have
added a new Spotlight importer template
for non-document-based applications.
And here's another difference, this importer imports
from external record files instead of your store file.
Well, what are external record files?
Well this is something new that we have added.
And these are managed by Core Data.
Each file identifies a managed object uniquely.
The property data still lives in the persistence store but
by giving this-- but by presenting external record files,
it gives the Spotlight a way to track
individual records in your application.
So you can create external record files in your application.
To create external record files in your application,
you need to specify a file extension
for the external record files.
And you also need to mark properties
to be indexed in Spotlight.
And this is another new thing we've added to
the Xcode design tool for your data model.
There's a new checkbox you'll see,
there is also API to support this.
But the easiest way's right in the Xcode design
tool, to use the checkbox, to index in Spotlight.
And the part that we take care for you, I
said we managed the external record files.
One, every time you save changes in your
context, we synchronize the external record files
on disc with the state of your Data Store.
So when you update a record, we
touch the external record file.
And when you delete a record, we
delete the external record file.
And this file system activity triggers the Spotlight
importer and lets the Spotlight index stay up to date
and in sync with the state of your data store.
So there's a new project template called
the Core Data Spotlight integration template
that includes a template for non-document-based
Core Data apps.
And in the new project assistant, you can see there's a
new checkbox, I selected Cocoa application to use Core Data
for storage, but now I can also specify,
"I want to include the Spotlight importer."
And you can see that the document-based
application is not checked.
So what do you need to do?
You need to customize the template code.
It's just like the document-based
Spotlight importer in that way.
In your importer, you want to look up their properties that
you marked in your model to index in Spotlight and then add
that property data to the Spotlight index.
And when you do that, you want to use the
proper metadata tags for Spotlight to be able
to provide the results in the best way possible.
But here's the thing, since you have accessed to the
entire store deck, external record file just tells you how
to find the store file and the managed object that
you're interested in, everything is accessible.
So you can pull in related data from
other objects and you're not restricted
to just working with the managed object you're indexing.
The other thing you need to do is take
care of displaying those search results.
In a document based application, it is sort of automatic.
When you open a document, your applications
are already designed to display that.
But in a non-document-based application,
you're going to open external record files.
So you need to register your app to open external-- the
file extension for those external record files as Core Data
for the object ID from the file, and then fetch and
display the record appropriately in your interface.
So this is-- we're really excited to give you a way
to achieve the same level of quality of integration
with Spotlight in your non-document-based applications now.
We take care of managing the tricky part
of keeping the records in sync on disc
and you do basically the same job you had in
the past with the document-based application
or you customize the importer and
display the records that match.
Now I'd like to shift gears and
talk about fetch performance.
So what are the fundamental ideas of fetch performance?
You want to fetch as little as
you can, fetch only what you need.
How much can you really put on screen?
Think about your working set.
On the iPhone, it is pretty obvious.
You only have got a few records on screen at a time.
And even on the desktop, it's hard to imagine the
user interface that can meaningfully show more
than a few hundred records to the user at once.
So the guiding philosophy here is to keep in mind
what is the size of your working set and to try
and keep things trimmed down to that as much as possible.
And Core Data already provides a lot of
options for dealing with a large data set.
Letting you fetch less data when you're working with it.
You can fetch managed objects for records
that you're actively working with.
But for records, you just need a reference to.
You can fetch object IDs or faults.
And you can even just fetch the count when all you
need to know is the number of records that match.
But what about when you're dealing with interface or UI
that wants your entire data set provided as an array?
Since the user is driving the access
to that data, the access can be random
and many records may not be displayed at all.
So if you fetch an array of managed objects and you hand
that over, you're using up way more memory than you want to.
And if you hand over an array of faults, then every record
that you access, that view accesses will trigger a fetch
and a round trip to the database to fetch that data.
So, on the one hand, you're using
up way more memory than you want to.
On the other hand, you're incurring an awful
lot of I/O and you'll see sluggish performance.
To address this, we've added a new option
to fetch request to fetch in batches
And it provides random access to your data set so you're
not fetching all of your records at once and it limits--
and it allows you to amortize the cost of the I/O because
every fetch to the database fetches a batch of records.
>> Additionally, when you're-- when you're not
actively holding on to records in that data set,
the batch fetching array can release
those records and free up those resources.
And all you need to do to use it is call "setFetchBatchSize"
on your NSFetchRequest and it will return to you
in auto-batching array of proxy when you do your fetch.
Sometimes you need to display a large table of data but
only show a few properties like in a master/detail view.
If your master view is only showing one or two
properties but your records define a lot of properties
that get displayed in the detail view--
well let's take a look at an example, sorry.
So you've defined your song entity here and it defines
all of the attributes that you need to keep track of.
And in your master table you're only really interested
in showing two of them, the title and the rating.
So to populate all of the values in that table,
all you really need to do is access
those two properties off of your songs.
And now you've got a way to choose
exactly the properties you want to fetch,
call setPropertiesToFetch on NSFetchRequest.
And when you fetch your objects, the managed objects
will be pre-populated with only those objects--
only those properties that you specified.
But these are full managed objects and you
get all of your business logic included.
If you access properties that aren't
pre-fetched, it'll cause a fetch to go
to the database to populate the remaining values.
Also if you change any values on your managed object
that'll cause a fetch to fill in those values too.
So that is something to be aware of.
If you are using partial fetches, you
want to avoid accidentally tripping a lot
of faults one after the other and burning I/O.
We've also added the option in Snow Leopard
to include or bypass pending changes.
This is a new fetch request option and you can--
it's enabled by default, pending changes are
enabled-- are included by default when you fetch.
But you can bypass them by calling
setIncludesPendingChanges no.
So why would we want to include pending changes?
Why would you want them?
Because it gives the user a consistent view of their
unsaved data-- of the state of their unsaved data.
Deleted objects will be omitted from the fetch-- from a
fetch from the database and updates an inserted object,
will be reconciled, will affect of
search results when you do a search.
Well, why would you want to bypass pending changes?
Well, sometimes you do not want them.
Maybe you just want the state of your saved data.
You just want to fetch against the state of your saved data.
And there are other times where you got a query that
really is tuned specifically to be executed in the database
and you don't want to evaluate it in run time, in memory.
Another case to be aware of is, if
you have a lot of pending changes,
in-memory evaluation of a predicate can be expensive.
So I've covered a few of the new fetch
options and these are advance fetch options
that we've added in Snow Leopard to NSFetchRequest.
And we can, you know, a couple of ways to deal with UIs and
APIs that want an entire-- your large data set all at once,
and also giving you the option to bypass
unsaved changes when you do not need them.
And now I would like to invite Melissa to
talk about some advance fetch techniques.
[ Applause ]
>> Adam's talked a lot about the new features
we have added to fetching that allow you
to control the managed objects that come back.
But sometimes a managed object isn't the answer
to the question you're interested in asking.
Sometimes you actually want different data back.
Sometimes you want an aggregate value.
Sometimes you want a collection of distinct values.
These aren't managed objects.
What you really want is something that will
let simple queries return simple values.
For those of you who've tried to do
this in previous versions of Core Data,
you know that the way you get an aggregate is to load
all of the objects that have a value that is part
of the aggregate value you're interested in.
Iterate it through each of those objects,
retrieve the piece of data you want,
do whatever calculations you need, and then use the results.
Similarly, if you want distinct values you would
load all of the objects, iterate through them,
pull out the piece of value-- the piece of data
you want, drop it into a set, return the set,
and release the managed object collection.
Now we've given you a way to load only the specific
data you want to do data aggregation in the database
to just get distinct values back from the database.
And to get those results back as
dictionaries instead of managed objects.
What can you get back?
Well, we were trying to flat [phonetic] dictionary.
A key value pair allows you to
specify what you want whatever you--
are getting back to be called and a value and its value.
An NS value, a number, a string, a date, an
NS data, and get back object IDs, if you want.
But you can't get back our collections,
no too many relationships.
How do you do it?
It's actually pretty simple.
We've added a new class, NSExpressionDescription.
As you might guess, it's part of the model description
classes and what this does is encapsulate description
of the data you want back from the database.
You create an NSExpressionDescription, you give it a name,
that is the key we will use in
the dictionary we're returning.
We give an expression-- an expression resultType
which describes the data type that's coming back
from the database, so we know what
we're expecting to pull out of SQLite.
And you give it an expression describing
the data you want back.
We support most of the same NSExpression types that
are supported in predicates passed to the store.
And I should say at this point that this-- the read-only
oata feature is primarily centered on the SQL store
because all of our other stores
do not really know how to do--
quickly do distinct or aggregate
type calculations in the database.
Once you go out NSExpressionDescription,
what do you with it?
Well that again is pretty simple,
you pass it to NSFetchRequest.
Adam talked earlier about the propertiesToFetch API that
we've added to fetch request and that's reused here.
You take your NSExpressionDescriptions, collect them
all up and pass them as an array to propertiesToFetch.
We have added new resultType and NSdictionary
resultType that says, you want whatever is coming back
as dictionaries instead of managed objects.
And optionally, we have added an API,
returnsDistinctResults, which will tell--
which will specify whether what you want back
is a collection of distinct results or not.
And because everything seems hard until you see it in code,
except sometimes the code itself
looks hard, we've added an example.
Here you can see us doing aggregate fetch.
We create up top an NSExpression and it is an
expression that says, "I want the sum of the values
in the key-- at the key path of duration."
Using that expression we can create
an ExpressionDescription.
We set its name to total time.
We set it-- the expressions the one we created in
the first step, and we set the expression resultType
to NSDecimalAttributeType, 'cause well,
we expect the duration to come back
as some number of minutes plus some number of seconds.
Then we take the ExpressionDescription we created, pass
it to NSFetchRequest that created somewhere off screen.
Set its propertiesToFetch to that array and
set the resultType to NSDictionaryResultType.
We then call ExecuteFetchRequest on a ManagedObjectContext
and we get back something that looks likes this.
It's a dictionary with one value in it, a total time.
Similarly-- oh, and to save you having to scribble
that down or reverse engineer it yourself,
we've actually associated a sample with this
particular session, it is called "Read-Only Core Data."
If you go look at it, it'll give you examples of how
to use the various features of the read-only fetching.
Another example that is also in there is distinct values.
This is how you create or fetch, returns distinct values.
In this case, we want distinct values, a title and
create an expression, keep out the expression for title.
We create an ExpressionDescription, in this case, we're
just going to use title as the name, set the expression,
set the resultType to NSStringAttributeType
because titles are strings.
Create our array and set the propertiesToFetch,
set the resultType and say,
we want distinct results, distinct results yes.
>> And again, there's an example of how to
do this in the read-only Core Data sample.
We've also expanded the variety of predicates
that supported in Core Data in Snow Leopard.
That it supports for KVC operators, or at least
the ones that makes sense in an SQL database.
Min, max, sum, count, average those are all there now.
We have added support for functions, do you
need to do math in the database for some reason?
Do you need min, max, average, sum?
Do you want upper case or lower case
strings as you're doing comparisons?
There is more function as well, see
the NSExpression.h header for that.
We've added a couple new string
comparison flags in the parser.
We've added an "n" for normalized, what does this mean?
Well, if you're familiar with doing string
searching and string comparisons in the database,
you'll know that well, string comparison is expensive.
And the common technique that we've talked about
in previous years, and it's common on the web,
is that you want to normalize or pre-process all
of your strings before you pass them into database.
Strip out diacritics, strip out any case, stuff,
do whatever you want to get it into canonical form.
If you use the "n" string flag when you're doing--
creating a predicate that specifies that
whatever you've got is canonicalized
and that we do not need to do any string processing on it.
We can treat it as a large bag of
bytes and just compare the bytes.
It is much faster to do this.
We do not have to do any of the calculations
and computations that come along with Unicode.
We have also added a flag "l" for doing
well locale-sensitive comparisons.
And in addition, we've added support
for the various string-comparison flags
to the equality and inequality operators.
And this is stuff-- all the stuff
we've done make a difference?
Well, it's easy to say it, so we'll also going to show it.
Like I said, we've got a pretty simple
demo application, has a table view up top
that has bunch of songs and their ratings.
Under that, it's got some aggregate information about
the songs, the song account min/max ratings, average.
All the average really tells me is that my random number
generator did a good job of generating random numbers.
And down here we've got a detail view that shows
information about the song that's selected.
So I'm going to have a look at that in
instruments and see what there is to see.
You know, once a very long time ago, we had to do stuff
like this using FS usage and that was kind of a pain.
And then we added logging code and this-- the
logging debug features Adam talked about earlier
And now, we have instruments which really rocks and I
highly suggest you use it because it is the best way
to discover what your application is doing.
So I'm going to create an instrument, a new
document using the object alloc instrument.
I'm going to add in Core Data fetches
and Core Data cache misses instruments,
because this is what we're interested in looking at.
I'm going to say that we should launch
my demo executable, I'm going to run it,
and for some reasons it's going
to pop out behind the instrument.
I'm going to scroll down and click on that-click
on a row and click on a row and click on row.
That should be all we really need to do.
And down here, I have another instrument that I got preset
up that's the same application running with the same values.
Only it has a command line parameter
saying, "Use the Snow Leopard features."
And the same-- I'm going to do the same thing here, I
am going to scroll down, click on a row, scroll down,
click on arrow, scroll down, click on a row and click.
Well, what can we see here?
Let's go have a look.
If we first look at the object alloc instrument,
we can see down here that the number of live bytes,
well, we got-- how about 5 meg of live memory.
So what do we have over here?
Oh, darn it.
I think I messed something up.
[ Pause ]
>> Well, that did not quite work.
But we can see is we turn through a lot less overall memory.
Demos, they're evil.
You can see that we did the same number of fetches.
Wait a second.
That would be what's wrong.
Instrument is helping me when I don't want help.
Let's try that again.
[ Pause ]
>> Ah-hah!
That looks better.
So, here we can see the application without the Snow Leopard
features is using 8.5 megabytes worth of live memory.
Well with partial faulting and using aggregates to get
our values come back, we can see it's only using 5 meg.
So that's a pretty significant and hefty
chunk of memory that you're saving there.
And that's really important especially in a
device, there's resource constrains of the iPhone.
You can also see that the overall bytes we've
used in the original application running
without the Snow Leopard features is close to 40 meg.
We've used 25 percent less.
Again, that's kind of important.
That means, less banging on mallet blocks [phonetic].
If we look at the fetch instrument, we can see that
in the original application, I did four fetches,
each one of which ended up bringing back
a whole lot of objects from the database
that I had to iterate through and pull values from.
If we go look at the fetch instruments over here, well,
I only have one of those mass [phonetic]
fetches and that was to populate the table.
The other ones only brought one
back-- only brought one value back.
Conversely, if I look at the cache misses instrument, I
can see that the types of objects that were brought back
in the first, I was only having to go to the
database to get albums, artists and genres.
That's because those are relationships of the
tracks that are being displayed in the table view.
And-- but if I go over here and
look at what I was fetching here,
I can see I'm also fetching albums and artist and genre.
But I am also fetching tracks and that's
because I was using partial faulting.
And when ever I clicked on a row in the database, whenever
a row became selected, I had to go to the database
to get the information that was not
being displayed in the table view,
so the balance there between memory
performance, CPU performance, I/O performance.
And that's a balance that everybody is going to have
to decide what's best for their particular application.
We can't give you an answer.
We hope we can give you tools to help you more easily
configure your application in the ways that are best
for your application and for your dataset.
And this is where I show for bugreporter.apple.com.
We gathered some miscellaneous APIs in Snow Leopard
and this is all been stuff that people have asked for.
You ask. We achieve.
We've added a new method prepareForDeletion
to NSManagedObject,
this is called "front lead object" immediately
before an object is going to be deleted.
This allows you to nuke caches, do any clean up that
you want to do before an object becomes deleted.
We've also added awakeFromSnapshotEvents.
A Snapshot event is essentially an undo or redo
and this notifies your object, it's a call back,
it notifies your object that it's been--
it's participated in an undo or redo.
And that if you've got caches that were calculated
those caches and it may now be out of date, or you know,
you may want to grab resources that you released as
a result of something else that you now need again.
[ Applause ]
>> We have added a couple of new
features to NSManageObjectContext.
Context should ignore un-modeled property changes.
My, that's an awful long method name but it does
pretty much exactly what it says it's going to do.
It tells the context that if a property is not in the
managed object model, don't mark the context as dirty
as a result of any changes made to that property.
[Applause] See, like I said people asked for it.
This allows you in a document-based application to set
up caches and transient relationships or what have you
at document open time without having
the document mark itself as dirty.
We've also added an existing object with ID API.
You pass this to Managed Object ID and
it will return an object to a fault
if one exists in the Managed Object Context.
And it was-- return nothing if it hasn't yet been loaded.
There may still be an object in the database.
You just won't get a pointer to it back because
you asked if there was one existing in the context.
And that's pretty much it for what I'm going to
talk to-- talk about for Core Data and Snow Leopard.
But other people have also been doing a lot of interesting
stuff in Snow Leopard and we'd want to talk a little bit
about how to integrate Core Data with some of
the things other people would have done in 10.6.
And first thing we're going to talk
about is Grand Central Dispatch.
This is a really cool technology, makes
threading a lot easier, 'cause threading is kind
of a pain as anybody who's ever done it knows.
>> Techniques we're going to talk about also apply to
Leopard if you're using NSOperation because NSOperation
and NSOperationQueue first appeared in Leopard
And actually, I believe we're the inspiration
for libdispatch which showed up in Snow Leopard.
It allows you to pass tasks off to work queues that handle
all the nasty details of threading behind your back
It supports serial or concurrent queues
and what you do is you submit a block,
new objective C2.0 feature, blocks for execution.
And at some future point, that block will be executed.
There is one and only one Core Data approved
technique for doing this and that's thread confinement.
In threaded code, that means that every
thread gets its own Managed Object Context.
In GCD, it means anything that might execute
concurrently gets its own Managed Object Context.
And if you need to communicate between threads of operation,
you need to pass object IDs back
and forth between the threads.
Visually, it looks a lot like this.
You can see here, we have a couple of serial
queues and all the tasks blocks that are
on queue 1 are using Managed Object Context 1.
But a block that is on queue 2, since it offer-- can be
evaluated concurrently with any of the blocks that are
on queue 1 has its own Managed Object
Context, Manage Object Context 2.
Going further, if we have a concurrent queue to this,
you can see that all blocks on a concurrent queue need
to have their own Managed Object Context because those could
be evaluated concurrently with each other or concurrently
with whatever is on one of the serial queues.
Everybody's life gets easier if anything that connects
queue concurrently is in its own-- has its own context.
And you don't need to lock, it means you do
not get bizarre threading errors, just do this.
And because it's tricky, and because everybody makes
mistakes and that includes us, we have a set of assertions
that can be enabled using com.apple.CoreData.ThreadingDebug
3.
This will bring your application to an immediate and abrupt
halt if any of the threading assumptions are violated.
It will be usable in a debug version of
the framework which should be downloadable
from ADC shortly after Snow Leopard goes jammed.
And if you want to integrate with Instant Off,
which is another new feature that's been added
in Snow Leopard hasChanges on NSManagedObjectContext is
now observable for the specific purposes of Instant Off.
It is very important that you not change the object
graph if you are observing it for the purpose
of Instant Off, or if you're just cheating.
Because who knows what's going to happen if you try and
notify your object graph while handing a notification
that resulted from the object graph being notified.
We make no guarantees.
You may succeed.
You may hurt yourself.
If you need to change the object graph, you need to save or
something like that, you can call performSelectorAfterDelay
or one of its associated methods
and sending a delay of zero.
This is a special number used to indicate that it
needs to happen during the Instant Off context.
So we're hoping you'll take away from this session
is knowledge of the new features that we've added
to Snow Leopard and sort of a sense
of how you might use them
in your application, what problems
they're intended to solve.
Some best practices for using Core
Data and for interacting with--
having Core Data interact with some of
the other technologies in Snow Leopard.
And some techniques like the Spotlight
integration and the migration--
the lightweight migration that will help
you accelerate your development cycle.
Make it easier for you to get your
apps out to your customers earlier.
If you got any comments, compliments,
questions you can ask Michael Jurewitz
who is our Evangelist, whose email is up on the screen.
We have lots and lots of documentation for you.
Starting point-- my favorite starting point
is the framework overview page, that's a URL.
I'm sure you can find it by googling for Core Data.
Let's see.
If you have an issue bugreport.apple.com, this is the
only way you can know-- we can know what we think.
As I said, we added the new-- 11 of the new features as
a result of customer demand and it came through this.
So if there's something you want to see, there
is something you think we are doing wrong,
just a new feature that you think would make your
life and everybody else's life easier, let us know.